♪
(wind whooshing softly)
(staticky radio chatter)
(static crackling)
(staticky radio chatter
continues)
♪
(man speaking foreign language
urgently through static)
(staticky foreign language
chatter continues)
(static crackling)
(staticky foreign language
chatter continues)
(man speaking worriedly in
foreign language through static)
(man shouting in foreign
language through static)
(static crackling loudly)
(static stops)
♪
IZAMURA:
You do understand
that we are different beings
than you.
So then, why did you help him?
What was your purpose?
You see, the thing is...
...filth like you
just doesn't belong here.
We simply don't see things
the way you do.
(laughs)
You are the spawn
of sinners past.
And the sky will swallow you
for those sins.
(clang echoing)
♪
-PATEMA: One, two.
-(footsteps clanking)
♪
(footsteps clanking)
(gasps softly)
(grunts softly)
(gasps)
♪
(sighs)
(laughs)
-(flashlight crackles)
-(grunts softly)
(groans)
♪
-(grunts)
-(others gasp, murmur)
-MAN: Patema,
what are you doing?
-MAN: What was that?
(laughs)
-What's all this?
-BOY: Hey! Hey! (grunts)
MAN:
Oh. We've reached another
storeroom on the lowest level.
We found vacuum packs.
And there's all kinds
of new seeds in here.
That's great.
We'll have new plants
next season.
I'll go right now
to tell Elder the good news.
Make sure you wash them all
first, okay?
Oh, right.
-Bye! (chuckles)
-Bye-bye!
-See you later!
♪
(objects clattering)
(shuffling)
(switch clicks)
(chuckles)
Hmm.
(door creaks)
A gentleman wouldn't
barge into a girl's room
without first
asking for permission.
We are not gentlemen, Patema.
-We are your guardians.
-(scoffs)
-Hey, I'm a gentleman!
-Be quiet, will you?
It sure would be nice
to come home from
somewhere new sometimes.
(grunts)
You were in the danger zone.
Yeah. What's the big deal?
The rules forbid it!
Aw, but it's really cool there.
I found this great big
open place when I was there.
It's not like here at all.
I know we have to preserve
where we live.
I understand that.
But it's just that
I want to find
more worlds outside as well.
Do you really think
that's something
a chief's daughter should say?
Wait, Elder, she didn't mean it.
PATEMA:
Lagos would never say that.
(shouts)
There are monsters over there,
like bat people.
They're mean,
and if they get you,
you will never be able
to come back here again.
You'll be tortured
for all eternity.
Look, I'm not a kid.
There's no such thing as that.
Uh, right?
(laughs)
Well, I guess not, but...
Anyway,
as the Chief's will stated,
he expects you
to set an example.
-Porta!
-Coming. See ya.
(grunts)
Stop filling her head
with that nonsense.
But it's true.
They do roam around in there,
don't they?
Quiet, Porta.
Don't you think it's time
we told her the truth?
It's probably more dangerous
for her not to know.
Patema is still just a child.
It just seems
so silly sometimes.
All these different rules.
ELDER:
We're alive because of them.
(elevator whirring)
So she doesn't think Lagos
would ever talk like that, huh?
Yeah, probably not.
He is no longer
one of us, Porta!
We haven't heard from him
in many years now.
He's probably just
lying dead somewhere.
-(elevator clanks)
-(bell dings)
(grunts)
♪
(knock on door)
Come in.
Hey, how are you, Patema?
You were fighting
with Elder again, weren't you?
(chuckles)
So you heard us, huh?
ELDER (in distance)
Where are you, Lagos?!
I'm not finished talking to you!
Do you hear me?!
(both chuckle)
You're not leaving again,
are you?
Uh, mm-hmm.
And I might be gone a while
this time.
Why do you keep having to leave?
I want you to stay here with me.
The thing is...
I want to go see new worlds
and explore them
so I can understand them better.
You wouldn't
understand yet, Patema.
Then take me with you.
Maybe someday,
when you're a bit older.
I'm not a child anymore,
you know.
(giggles)
Just be patient, and stay out
of trouble here, okay?
If you promise to be good,
I'll give you another present.
See?
Pretty, huh?
Uh, well, maybe you are getting
a little too old for that stuff.
Um...
Okay, close your eyes.
It's something very old
but also very precious.
It's... the world.
Okay, open your eyes.
♪
Haven't I waited
long enough, Lagos?
♪
(footsteps clanking)
(grunts)
(panting)
(breathes deeply)
-(distant clank)
-(gasps)
♪
(sighs) I'm being stupid.
-(distant clanking)
-(gasps)
(distant clanking continues)
Maybe I should just go back.
(footsteps clanking)
-(gasps)
-(heavy clank)
♪
-(roars)
-(screams)
(grunts)
(hisses)
(grunting)
A bat person.
(electricity crackling)
(screams)
(panting)
(gasps)
(grunts)
(confused grunts)
(sighs)
(grunting weakly)
♪
(no audio)
(door creaks closed)
(wind whooshing softly)
(grunts weakly)
(grunting)
(wind whooshing softly)
(wood creaking)
(grunts)
-(nearby clank)
-(gasps)
(wind whooshing softly)
(grunting softly)
Huh?
(Patema grunting, climbing)
(fence rattling)
PATEMA:
Don't be scared.
As long as I hold on,
I won't fall.
(grunting)
(straining)
(sighs)
♪
-Uh, hello.
-(gasps)
(grunting, straining)
(screams, whimpers)
Excuse me,
but what's wrong with you?
Just help me!
Huh?
Uh...
-(whimpering)
-(fence rattling)
(both grunt)
(Patema panting)
(both grunting)
(Age gasps)
(Patema whimpers)
♪
(wind whistling softly)
(whimpers)
(grunting)
(wind whistling softly)
-(screams) Don't let us fall!
-(grunts, shouts)
-What? Fall where?
-Just don't let go!
Huh?
(grunts)
(panting)
(footsteps clank softly)
(sighs)
Huh?
It's like Lagos's picture.
(wind whooshing softly)
(gasps)
Lagos, you've got to be kidding.
Are you an Invert?
You're upside down.
What do you mean upside down?
Look, I don't know
what's going on around here,
but look around you.
Can't you see for yourself?!
You're on the ceiling!
Sorry, hate to tell you,
but I'm pretty sure
you're the one on the ceiling.
Yeah, right. Well, I'm pretty
sure I know up from dow...
What is it?
The bat person.
I knew it.
-You're one of them, aren't you?
-Huh?
You hang upside down.
I should've known.
Hey, calm down.
Why is this happening to me?
Stop. Geez.
Let me go, okay?!
Just wait!
Do you mind telling me what
it is exactly I've done to you?
Uh, it's 'cause you-- I mean...
Nothing, that's what.
And I won't, Invert or not.
Sorry about that.
You saved my life, didn't you?
What happened?
Was someone after you?
Now what do I do?
(wind whooshing softly)
Listen, I...
(siren blaring in distance)
-What's that?
-Sorry, I-I've got to get back.
Huh?
AGE:
To school.
PATEMA:
No!
Hey, wait. Please, don't go!
You can't leave me alone.
But I've got civics class.
I can't be absent.
They watch us.
What's more important, me
or some stupid class at school?!
(whimpers)
You don't have to worry.
I'll come back after.
You promise?
Mm-hmm.
♪
-(music stops abruptly)
-Don't forget, okay?
I won't.
(music starts, stops abruptly)
And don't tell the bat people.
-Okay.
-(music starts, stops abruptly)
Oh, and I'm hungry, too.
Something tells me you're
a real princess, aren't you?
-Yes, I am.
-(music resumes)
And it would be best
if you would remember that.
My name's Age.
What should I call you?
Patema.
♪
Amazing. I flew!
WOMAN (over P.A.):
The time is now 8:30.
Remember, proper upbringing
leads to a proper education.
Proper education
leads to proper behavior.
The time is now 8:31.
♪
WOMAN (over P.A.):
The time is now 8:32.
Remember, proper upbringing
leads to a proper education.
Proper education
leads to proper behavior.
The time is now 8:33.
Remember...
IZAMURA:
When our planet was afflicted
by The Great Change,
many lives were lost
when people were
carried off into the sky.
You see, we citizens of Aiga,
who remain
firmly rooted to the earth,
are left to preserve humanity.
As a result,
Aiga's the only true world
in which humanity exists.
There is no world but Aiga.
We must keep our eyes
firmly on our feet,
follow the laws
and maintain order,
as we continue to preserve
our precious land.
That barren wasteland
that lies beyond the cliff,
that malevolent light
that comes from the sky,
-they are to be...
-(beep, video stops)
TEACHER:
Three demerit points, Age.
Do you know why?
AGE:
I was listening.
TEACHER:
Yes, but unfortunately
you were also looking off
in an unpleasant direction,
weren't you?
As usual,
your brain is inverted.
-AGE (quietly): What?
-(chuckles)
TEACHER:
Can anyone tell me
why life here in Aiga is ideal?
Anyone?
Well?
For Age's sake,
we can discuss this
for the entire assembly period.
(gasping)
BOY:
We follow the laws,
maintain order
and keep our eyes on the ground.
TEACHER:
Correct.
Law and order are vital.
I have been told
that you were not
in the dormitory
last night, Age.
One who does not
stay in line here will--
Are you listening to me?!
You will not qualify
to be a citizen
just by showing up for class.
(scoffs)
Like father like son, I suppose.
(beep)
(camera whirring)
(clears throat)
But don't worry.
I'm not giving up on you
just yet.
You, too, will have to shoulder
the burden of our future.
And that means
your presence here
carries some importance.
What happened to your father
was a shame,
but I believe we must not
dwell on the past.
But, sir?
-Yes?
-If I'm not mistaken,
the laws say nothing
about looking up at the sky.
(sighs) I can't believe we need
to look at page six again.
(tablet beeping)
Nothing good can come from
looking into the sky
and the souls of the sinners
who've been carried into it.
But is it really a sin
to fall into the sky?
So it is written.
It is a despicable sin.
-(straining)
-You can't go to the surface!
Talk to Elder.
-I can't just sit here
and do nothing!
-(shouts)
(footsteps running on grass)
-(footsteps approaching)
-(gasps)
(door creaking)
Uh, Patema?
-You're late!
-(gasps)
Do you know
how boring it is here?
I'm sorry.
They kept me after class.
-Here.
-(grunts)
(sniffs)
Yum!
(gasps)
(groans) I feel kind of weird.
(gasps) Maybe eating your food
made me lighter.
(grunts softly)
(gasps softly)
-Patema.
-Huh?
Does the sky scare you?
The sky?
You mean
where you're looking now?
Oh, that's right.
Yeah, the sky.
Of course it scares me.
Doesn't it scare you?
Well, tonight you can see the
stars, so I guess I like it.
-Stars?
-(chuckles)
You don't know
about stars either?
I don't know anything
about this world,
so why would I?
Hey, come look
at the stars, okay?
(gasps)
-No way!
-Just try.
I'm scared to look down!
Forget it!
-Really?
-Yeah. Of course!
AGE:
All right.
Huh?
♪
(whispers):
Beautiful.
You're the first one
who's ever said that.
But they really are.
More so than anything
I've seen where I come from.
My dad told me about them.
Your dad?
He really liked
looking at the sky.
He always said
he wanted to fly off into it.
He even made himself
a machine to do that.
PATEMA:
To fly? How?
I'm not sure.
I don't remember.
Why don't you ask him?
AGE:
For some reason,
everyone was against him flying.
They all thought
it was bad luck.
Of course I knew it wasn't.
I skipped school that day
so I could go watch.
♪
They all said God punished him.
But why?
It was a great thing he did,
wasn't it?
PATEMA:
I think I understand
how your father must have felt.
The sky--
it really is beautiful.
♪
I feel like, for first time,
I'm glad I came to this world.
(wind whistling)
♪
(keys clacking)
IZAMURA:
Mm. Definitely inverted.
Did it fall into the sky?
Or perhaps...
JAKU:
Sir, this incident
appears to have occurred
at some point
below the barren zone,
near the Education Center.
Increase surveillance there.
Note even minor changes.
Yes, sir.
This may provide us with a clue
as to where
the rest of them might be.
And once we find them,
I'm sure that
we'll all get along just fine.
(keys clacking)
(wind whooshing softly)
AGE:
What's it like down there?
Under the ground?
PATEMA:
It's a lot smaller
and darker than it is here.
That's why I wanted
to go explore,
to find a new world.
There were books about it,
and Lagos--
he once gave me a picture.
The most beautiful picture.
I still have it.
AGE:
Lagos?
PATEMA:
Someone important.
AGE:
So, I guess
you don't like where
you're from either, huh?
PATEMA:
No, that's not true.
Elder's there, and so's Porta.
Everyone's really nice.
They're probably
pretty worried, I guess.
Uh, listen.
I'm gonna find a way to get you
back to your family.
I promise.
And when you do,
I'll introduce you to everyone.
What's wrong?
♪
-Hide.
-(gasps)
♪
They must have noticed
the missing food.
It's the bat people.
Just like before in the tunnel.
AGE:
(gasps) You saw Security Police?
Oh, no.
Why is this happening?
We have to go!
Don't you see?
They're after you, Patema.
Huh?
But how?
Grab hold.
(wind whooshing)
I can't. I'll fall.
It's okay. Don't worry.
They say only sinners
fall into the sky.
Do you really believe
that's true?
Of course I don't.
I can do this.
I trust you, Age.
That's the spirit.
Come on, Princess.
Lagos, please help me.
♪
(grunts)
-(gasps softly)
-Here we go.
♪
My body-- it's so light.
(grunting)
Wait! Slow down!
I get it. Your weight
makes me a lot lighter.
Girls don't like it when
you talk like that, you know!
Age.
Age! Watch where you're going!
(both screaming)
(both grunt)
(Patema whimpering)
(grunting)
(Age panting)
-I think you can make it back.
-Huh?
-AGE: We just
have to cross the fence.
-(chalk writing)
We'll hold on tight
to each other and drift down.
You mean we can fly?
Are you sure? (gasps)
To get there,
we need to go behind them.
PATEMA:
Behind them?
♪
Hey, wait!
We can make it.
(both scream)
(Age grunts)
(wind whistling)
It worked! Wow.
We're flying!
(grunts)
♪
(rain falling)
(switch clicks)
(beeping)
PRINCIPAL:
Two days of unauthorized leave,
unauthorized use
of a government facility
and taken into custody by
Security Police Central Command.
And worst of all,
you were near the fence.
TEACHER:
I'm very disappointed.
PRINCIPAL:
Why are you intentionally
causing trouble
for the authorities?
You do understand that
you are our responsibility
-while you're here.
-Are you even listening?!
PRINCIPAL:
Your behavior and attitude
damages the reputation
of this entire institution.
They took her.
-(gasps softly)
-What was that?
They took Patema.
I just-- I wanted to help her.
TEACHER:
He's not making any sense.
They attacked us!
Th-They're the ones
not making sense!
Behave yourself.
(footsteps approaching)
Please leave us.
What?
(grunts)
(grunting)
What you met near the fence
was not human.
If your desire is to live,
you will forget her.
Just leave
all the hard questions to us.
Or have you grown
too attached to let go?
Just because
she looks like a girl.
-(grunting)
-(laughs)
I won't tell you again.
I'd hate for you to have an
accident like your father did.
♪
(footsteps receding)
-(door opens)
-(gasps)
(footsteps)
What do you want?
Send me back home.
I hate this upside-down world.
Upside-down, huh?
I'm afraid you're mistaken.
After all, you're the one
hanging from the ceiling.
Don't you think that's odd?
It seems quite clear to me
that perhaps
you don't understand
why you were born an Invert.
(Patema gasps)
IZAMURA:
You see, there once
were some people
who conducted an experiment,
a dangerous experiment
that attempted
to harness energy from gravity.
(explosive rumbling)
But Mother Nature would not
allow such foolishness.
The experiment was
a cataclysmic failure,
causing gravity to be reversed.
These people
and everything they created
all fell up into the sky.
All except, of course,
for our ancestors.
We established the land of Aiga
to ensure that nothing like this
would ever happen again.
And to bring eternal peace
to our society
based on law and order.
However, some for whom
gravity was reversed
managed not to fall.
That filth abandoned the surface
and burrowed themselves
underground.
We have made Aiga
into a perfect society.
So what do you think
would happen if we allowed
Inverted blood
to contaminate ours?
We cannot expose Aiga
to such impurities,
especially from sinners
like yourself,
who will then be swallowed up
by the sky!
Sinners? How so?
Hmm. Allow me to introduce you.
After all, this unfortunate
situation all began
-when an Invert showed up here.
-(gasps)
♪
(footsteps)
(liquid burbling)
♪
The Invert you see here
before you
was taken in
by one of our citizens,
and encouraged him to threaten
Aiga's law and order.
See? All inverted.
And that got me to thinking:
perhaps there were other Inverts
hidden away somewhere,
who might also try to come here
and threaten Aiga's sanctity.
That man refused to talk,
right to the very end.
-(shouts)
-But still,
his ordeal won him nothing!
(shouting)
(grunts)
(wind whistling)
(screams)
(whimpers)
You're very heavy.
I could easily drop you.
(laughs)
Yes, that's right.
Your very life now depends on me
and me alone, my dear.
(Patema panting)
♪
(wind whooshing softly)
(crying softly)
(grunts, gasps)
(shouts)
PORTA:
(grunts) Man, this is scary.
Almost there.
(grunting)
Huh?
(gasping)
(stammers) Wait, come back!
You know Patema, right?
Wait, what?! Do you know
where I can find her?!
-Tell me! Where is she?!
-(grunting)
(both shouting, grunting)
(panting)
That was close.
Ow. Stupid fence.
I could hold Patema down
with my weight.
Oh, yeah. Where is she?
You know, don't you?
Come on, just tell me.
Did they catch her?
They did, didn't they?
Just tell me the truth, please!
-I was with her.
-(gasps)
You just stood there
and watched?!
I'm sorry.
What could I have done?
(Porta grunts)
Hey,
if your gravity's reversed...
Patema--
she's in that tower, right?
-Okay, you!
-(gasps)
-You're coming with me.
-Huh?
-(stammers)
-Just come on!
(stammers)
(rope creaking)
Hey, he's coming.
That was quick.
Okay.
-One and-- Oh!
-What?
-It's really light.
-Do you think he fell?
Hey, come on, that's enough.
-Bite your...
-Huh?
-Tongue!
-(screams)
-(gasping)
-What the hell?
An Aigan!
Hey, Porta, what are you doing?
Quiet down! We'll talk later.
Now take us to see Elder!
♪
(panting)
-It's one of the bat people!
-Whoa!
Hey, wait! (sighs)
(grunting)
♪
(quiet chatter)
ELDER:
Keep them all out of here.
-Understood?
-Got it.
(groans)
What have you done, Porta?
Really? Is that all
any of you can say to me?
Everything is upside down.
I certainly hope
none of the children saw him.
Children?
(sighs)
We do not teach
our children here about Aiga.
That's one of our rules.
It's important
that they grow up right.
Here we go with the rules again.
The rules exist to stop
this very thing from happening!
-Why can't you see...
-Forget the rules!
-They've got Patema!
-Huh?
(growls)
I was worried
that might be the case.
PORTA:
It's true, right?
Where is she?
Somewhere inside
the Control Center.
It's a tower in Aiga.
It's located
right above the danger zone.
ELDER:
You went there?!
PORTA:
I drifted back down here
with him.
You see,
their weight cancels ours.
Which means, with his help,
we can get in the tower
from there.
ELDER:
We will not
break the rules twice!
PORTA:
Ah, you and your stupid rules!
I'm sick of hearing it,
you old goat!
-Forget the rules!
-You be quiet!
PORTA:
Who made those rules, anyway?!
ELDER:
Shut your mouth!
PORTA:
(grunts) You make me, old man!
(both grunting)
ELDER:
Is that a photograph?
Uh, yeah.
Looks like it's from Aiga.
I don't know how many times
I told that fool Lagos
not to show her those things.
Who's this guy Lagos?
Was he Patema's boyfriend
or something?
No way!
He's just some loon
who went to Aiga.
He should have known not to go
to such a horrible place.
What horrible place?
♪
It can be difficult to grasp
how terrifying
a place like that can be
until you see
you have nowhere to stand.
It's a very different world
she's seeing now-- poor girl.
She must be terrified
in a place like that.
No, she's not.
She's doing just fine.
-She said so.
-Of course she told you that.
That's just the way she is.
I remember she acted the
same way when the Chief died,
even though his death left her
without any remaining family.
I remember. She just
hid in her room and cried.
She didn't want us to know.
So she appeared strong?
No offense, but you're
too upside down to understand.
How could you
possibly understand
anything about Patema?
Yeah, that may be so.
It's possible
I don't understand at all.
But...
I was happy.
She said
the stars were beautiful,
and she listened
about my father.
I never told anyone
about that before.
But when she was captured,
I couldn't do anything to help.
I didn't even think of
trying to rescue her.
(grunts)
I'll do anything.
You have to help me.
(grunts softly)
(sighs)
(quiet rustling)
(whooshing)
ELDER:
We call this area here
the danger zone,
because this is where the tower
reaches down to the ground.
Once, long ago,
it was used for communication
between us and Aiga.
Or so I've heard.
So this...
...is the
Control Center basement?
ELDER:
It's all but abandoned now.
There's no way
of getting through.
AGE:
It comes down this deep?
ELDER:
I'm not sure
why it was abandoned,
but the Chief once said
that Aiga hoped to flourish
by cutting ties with us
and forgetting its past.
Let's worry about
the history lesson later.
Right now
let's just sneak in there.
(rope creaking)
♪
We simply cannot let Aiga
take anyone else.
If they catch you...
I'm going to save her.
I'll go alone if I have to.
Oh, yeah?!
Well, I was about to say that!
You'll both have to cooperate
for this to have any chance
of working.
PORTA and AGE:
We are well aware of that!
ELDER:
Remember, even though
you're upside down...
You're the one
standing on the ceiling.
PORTA:
Come on, let's go. Stay alert.
You stay alert.
♪
IZAMURA:
It would seem
that I have accomplished
far more than
the leader who came before.
And that girl
finding her way here
means there are a lot more rats
hiding in the sewer.
Don't you think?
We could just interrogate her.
Oh, there's no need to rush.
She'll soon come to realize
that I hold absolute power
over her.
Once she's been softened up,
she'll tell us anything we ask.
-Understood?
-Uh, it's not that, sir.
IZAMURA:
(chuckles) The look on her face
as she clung to me...
I look forward
to seeing that again.
(chuckles)
The Invert girl
has been transferred.
Thank you. Good work.
But why is she in the hall
of the top floor?
JAKU:
Apparently,
that frightens Inverts.
♪
-(heads bump)
-(both groan)
(both growl)
(Porta and Age grunting quietly)
(camera whirring)
(static crackles)
(both grunting)
♪
PORTA:
Damn.
I can't go over there, Age.
You go. I'll find another route.
Porta?
Thank you.
I'll be right behind you, okay?
(wind whistling softly)
Beautiful.
(whimpering)
Help... help me.
Age.
-(quiet clink)
-(gasps)
(quiet click)
AGE:
I'm sorry.
I left you alone.
♪
(crying softly)
(crying continues)
Lagos is dead.
(gasps)
♪
Hey, I met your family
back home.
Porta and I came here together.
(gasps) Really?
Mm-hmm.
I made them a promise:
that I'd do whatever it takes
to get you back to them.
Age.
AGE:
We can jump,
no matter how high,
as long as
we just stick together.
(lights thumping)
(both gasp)
♪
Would you care to explain
how that boy got in here?
He would've needed help
from another Invert, sir.
-I see.
-We'll find the other one.
Let's go.
(men gasping)
JAKU:
Get them!
(wind whistling)
AGE:
Patema!
(both grunting)
(gasps)
(grunts)
My leg!
-(growls)
-Sir, hold on.
(grunts)
You're starting
to get on my nerves, boy.
(grunts)
(screams)
(wind whistling)
-(Patema whimpering)
-IZAMURA: First the father,
now the son
seeks to destabilize Aiga.
Can't say I'm surprised.
So it wasn't an accident.
IZAMURA:
Those who violate our laws must
die, even if they're from Aiga.
-Just like that Invert.
-(gasps)
What is wrong
with flying, anyway?
Some things are
not meant to be seen.
That's it. You're afraid.
My father told me
that when you're up in the sky
and you look down,
you'll see how small
Aiga really is.
You're all just too afraid
to find that out.
I've flown with Patema.
I've seen it for myself.
Which makes it
even more unfortunate
that you won't be around
to see what happens to her.
(Jaku grunts)
Kill the boy.
-But, sir...
-That is an order!
♪
(panting)
(wind whistling)
♪
(whooshing)
(wind whistling softly)
♪
-(knock on door)
-Come in.
Hey, how's it going, Patema?
Sounds like you were fighting
with Elder again.
(laughs)
So you heard us, huh?
ELDER (in distance):
Where are you, Lagos?!
I'm not finished talking to you!
(shouts)
(Patema giggles)
Are you leaving again, Lagos?
Uh, mm-hmm.
But I won't be coming back.
I went to Aiga, and, uh...
(Patema sobs)
Stay here with me.
Patema, I had a dream.
That's why I went to Aiga.
But I wasn't able
to make it come true.
And that's why...
...I'm leaving that dream
to someone very special.
Lagos.
(gasps)
And so you must
never let him go.
Do you understand?
(wind whooshing)
(gasps) Age! Age!
(confused grunt)
(gasps)
(wind whistling)
(rope creaking)
(Porta grunting)
Porta.
Patema-- she fell.
(wind whooshing)
PATEMA:
Age, those lights.
♪
(grunting, gasping)
Just hang on!
It's all right!
(panting softly)
♪
(soft footsteps)
Stars.
(gasps)
(soft electrical crackling)
Hey, wait a minute.
That's my backpack.
Age?
♪
Age, is that...?
It's my dad's flying machine.
♪
(wind whistling softly)
So those two sinners have been
swallowed up into the sky, huh?
She chose that boy
over my protection.
Why?!
Why didn't she choose me?!
(panting)
-Listen.
-Sir.
Tell everyone that the boy died
in an unfortunate accident.
-Right.
-It's a good chance
to set an example.
(clanking)
(metal shatters)
(gasps)
(metal thumps)
Age?
AGE:
I was so scared.
When I looked down,
my mind just went blank.
Don't worry. You're safe here.
I thought I understood
how you must be feeling in Aiga.
I thought my protecting you
would be enough.
But now I understand.
It's terrifying
to be upside down.
Your father made this machine,
didn't he, Age?
But look at this.
See?
(paper rustling)
The writing-- it's my dad's.
So what does it say?
Oh, it's hard to read
upside down, okay?
AGE:
"September 23rd.
"Something amazing
happened today.
"I met a strange man who said,
'I come from the world below.'
"He claims gravity operates
"in exactly the opposite
direction as ours for him,
"as bizarre as that might seem.
"This man, Lagos...
(gasps)
"I'm hiding this man
from the others.
"They mustn't know
the truth of Lagos's existence.
His appearance here
must signify something."
("Patema Inverse"
by Estelle Micheau playing)
"September 28th.
"I spent the last few days
with Lagos.
(song continues
with singing in Esperanto)
"We opened up to each other
"and tried to get familiar
with each other's worlds.
"I feel like we have
a great deal in common.
"No hesitation now.
"I've decided to go ahead and
confide in him about my dream.
(song continues
with singing in Esperanto)
♪
"I'll finally be starting
on the path
"towards realizing my dream.
"I'm so grateful to the friend
from another world
"that gave me the courage.
"We are united.
"And when this test is done,
"I'll help him
achieve his dream,
the dream of
uniting all mankind."
(song ends)
It seems like...
your father...
was much closer to Lagos
than I ever was.
Why?
(gasps)
(metal creaking softly)
♪
(grunting softly)
(giggles)
(both laugh)
It's like I'm seeing you
for the first time.
Me, too.
Age, I understand now.
Huh?
You see, you all saw
the same thing.
Lagos, you and your father.
That's why.
AGE:
Patema.
♪
(screen chirping)
(machinery whirring)
(clanking, whirring)
(grunts) It's too hot here.
I can't take it anymore!
That's not it.
It's got to be here somewhere.
I've got it.
-Here it is!
-(gasps)
(Age grunts)
(mechanical thumping)
(metal creaking)
(both gasp)
(metal creaking softly)
♪
We'll tell everyone
about Lagos and my father.
Yeah.
♪
IZAMURA:
That's some rather
unpleasant footage.
Good morning to you, sir.
Do you believe that the sinners
will return from the sky?
No, it's just...
You must realize that
none of this would've happened
if you hadn't hesitated
to shoot.
Oh. (chuckles)
You feel responsible.
So now you've decided to
personally keep watch yourself?
Reinstitute
the underground patrols.
There'll be no more
of these intrusions.
-(gasps)
-(screen chirps)
-(keys clacking)
(screen beeping)
♪
WOMAN (over P.A.):
The time is now 8:30.
Remember, proper upbringing
leads to a proper education.
Proper education
leads to proper behavior.
Hey, what are you doing?
An accident makes no sense.
Age wanted to fly,
just like his dad almost did.
Cut it out, will ya?
...proper behavior.
The time is now 8:32.
-What's that?
-Huh?
-(students murmuring)
-Hey, look.
Up there, look.
Proper education
leads to proper behavior.
-(murmuring continues)
-Oh, there. What...
The time is now 8:33.
-Huh?
-(loud boom, students gasp)
-What's going on here?
-GIRL: What was that?
All of you, get to class!
(gasps)
(concerned murmuring)
-(grunts)
-Hey!
♪
Security Police.
We're going to have to jump.
You're not scared of falling?
I'm fine if I'm with you.
♪
-(grunts)
-(panting)
(wind whistling)
It's Age.
♪
(vehicle approaching)
(tires squealing)
-(gasps)
-This time, don't wait.
-Age!
-IZAMURA: Fire!
(grunts)
(both grunting)
(wind whistling)
What?
We did it. (laughs)
-(gasps)
-We're in the clear now.
♪
They will not escape!
Move it!
JAKU:
Might I suggest
that we reconsider, sir?
IZAMURA:
Where do you think it is
that they're going?
This is the perfect chance to
find the rest of those Inverts!
♪
Patema, may you rest in peace.
(yells) Patema!
(Porta sobbing)
It's hard to put into words
what you...
(crying)
(confused grunt)
(gasps) Porta. Porta!
(gasping)
I'm back.
(sighing)
-Patema!
-(excited chatter)
-(laughs): Oh!
-MAN: This is crazy!
(excited chatter continues)
Thank goodness you're okay.
Oh, you guys,
I missed you all so much!
MAN:
You're okay!
ELDER:
Thank you, Age.
Thank you. Oh, thank you.
(excited chatter,
laughing continues)
♪
Uh, Elder,
I'm afraid that Lagos...
(gasps softly)
I see.
AGE:
Here.
What's this?
There's a notebook inside.
It says how Lagos...
-(loud crashing)
-(people shouting)
-What are they doing up there?!
-Huh?
(men shouting, screaming)
(machine clanks)
(gasping)
Patema!
Elder!
-Porta!
-ELDER: Patema!
You people are just like
the Chief always said!
(Izamura laughing maniacally)
Yes. Yes.
I've finally found you Inverts.
(people groaning)
That's enough.
MAN:
Help!
-I'm slipping!
-What are you doing?
-I'm gonna fall!
-Arrest these Inverts!
-Help me! (groaning)
-That's an order!
Do you hear me?!
-(grunts)
-This is mutiny!
Give me your hand. Hurry.
Why, you wretched
little traitor.
(yells)
(grunting)
Porta!
♪
(gasps)
(both gasp)
(both grunting)
(whimpering softly)
(gasps)
(grunting)
(metal creaking)
(rocks clattering)
(rocks crackling softly)
(both grunt softly)
(pants)
AGE:
Hey. Over here!
Porta!
(gunshot)
(gasps)
Don't you see?
She's just a filthy Invert.
So then why...
why won't you let her go?
Tell me why!
That filthy sinner.
-No, don't!
-Age.
Just try to imagine it,
the world that Patema sees.
(gasps)
She's upside down here,
helpless,
no ground to support her.
She's uncertain, afraid.
That's why all she can do
is trust in me
and just hang on.
I won't let go, Patema.
(gunshot echoes)
(Age gasps)
♪
(Age straining)
(gasps)
I do admire your courage.
Next I'm going to shoot
your left leg.
Then your right arm after that.
We'll see how long
you can hold on, Invert.
Give yourself to me, and
I promise that I'll save you.
I won't let her go.
♪
-(grunts)
-Patema!
(grunting)
Why won't you just die? (shouts)
(screaming)
Porta!
(laughs maniacally)
He fell. He fell up.
(laughing maniacally)
-Yes.
-(gasping)
PATEMA:
Age, goodbye.
(laughing maniacally)
(grunts)
(gasps)
(laughing maniacally)
Nice try, you repulsive sinner.
But the sky
will now swallow you up.
(yelling)
-(loud rumbling)
-(grunting)
(rumbling fades)
(wind whistling softly)
(grunts) What's going on?
(grunting)
What's happening?
(gasps)
(creaking)
(gasping)
(grunting)
(weapon fires)
(Porta and Elder sigh)
Next time, save me
with a little more style.
(grunting softly)
AGE:
Pate...
(grunts weakly)
♪
(Age grunting softly)
PATEMA:
Age? Age?
Age!
(gasps) You're all right.
Where am I?
Have a look.
♪
(birds chirping)
ELDER:
Once long ago,
a terrible accident
happened here.
Many people fell into the sky.
Fell into the sky,
but for those few
who somehow managed not to fall,
they abandoned the surface
and hid deep underground.
ELDER:
The scientists
who were at fault for this
shouldered the blame
and took it upon themselves
to remain with the victims.
PORTA:
Y-You don't mean...
The Chief's final testament
told us a lot, Porta.
♪
(gasps)
Patema!
I want to see.
Take me out there with you.
(grunts softly)
♪
(grunts)
Wait!
Look at the way
they're holding each other.
I think she likes him.
I had a chance to read
his father's notebook.
Perhaps he's right.
Perhaps there is a future
for my son's dream after all.
The people of Aiga
will be in for quite a shock
-when they see this.
-PORTA: Who cares?
This is more important
than your love life, Porta.
PORTA:
Listen, you don't know
the way I feel!
JAKU:
I suppose you're right. Sorry.
♪
(birds squawking)
("Patema Inverse"
by Estelle Micheau playing)
Two worlds lay before us
both upside-down
Each one reaching out,
searching
Each reaching out
to take the other's hand
The parted sky and earth
Come together
in the palm of a hand
Like a map of white
to cover them over
It starts with a light there
Riding on hope, it will come
For the two of us
One day for sure
Two hearts ringing out
both upside-down
Each exchanging words
with the other
Two hearts drawn close
beating as one
The parted sky and earth
Held in the palm of a hand
Like a blank puzzle
to fill them in
It starts with the sound of
a footstep, there
Riding on the future,
it will come
For the two of us
One day for sure
(song ends)
♪
(music ends)